README.md, before:

![AgentBox Logo](media/logo-image-only-150.png)

# AgentBox

A Docker-based development environment for running Claude CLI in a more safe, isolated fashion. This makes it less dangerous to use YOLO mode (`--dangerously-skip-permissions`), which is, in my opinion, the only way to use AI agents.

## Features

- **Shares project directory with host**: Maps a volume with the source code so that you can see and modify the agent's changes on the host machine - just like if you were running Claude without a container.
- **Multi-Directory Support**: Mount additional project directories for cross-project development
- **Unified Development Environment**: Single Docker image with Python, Node.js, Java, and Shell support
- **Automatic Rebuilds**: Detects changes to Dockerfile/entrypoint and rebuilds automatically
- **Per-Project Isolation**: Each project directory gets its own isolated container environment
- **Persistent Data**: Package caches and shell history persist between sessions
- **Claude CLI Integration**: Built-in support for Claude CLI with per-project authentication
- **SSH Support**: Dedicated SSH directory for secure Git operations

## Requirements

- **Docker**: Must be installed and running
- **Bash 4.0+**: macOS ships with Bash 3.2, I recommend upgrading via Homebrew (`brew install bash`).

## Multi-Directory Support

AgentBox supports mounting additional directories for scenarios where your agent needs access to multiple projects:

```bash
# Mount a single additional directory
agentbox --add-dir ~/other-project

# Mount multiple directories (repeatable flag)
agentbox --add-dir ~/proj1 --add-dir ~/proj2 --add-dir ~/proj3

# Works with shell mode too
agentbox --add-dir ~/library-code shell
```

**How it works:**
- Your current directory is always mounted as `/workspace`
- Additional directories are mounted using their folder names (e.g., `/foo`, `/bar`)
- All directories are writable - changes sync back to the host
- The mounting order follows the order you specify in the flag

## Installation

1. Clone AgentBox to your preferred location
2. Ensure Docker is installed and running
3. Make the script executable: `chmod +x agentbox`
4. Optionally add to your PATH for global access

## Quick Start

```bash
# Show available commands
agentbox --help

# Start Claude CLI in container (--dangerously-skip-permissions is automatically included)
agentbox

# Non-agentbox CLI flags are passed through to claude.
# For example, to continue the most recent session
agentbox -c

# Mount additional directories for multi-project access
agentbox --add-dir ~/proj1 --add-dir ~/proj2  # Multiple directories

# Start shell with sudo privileges
agentbox shell --admin

# Set up SSH keys for AgentBox
agentbox ssh-init
```

## How It Works

AgentBox creates ephemeral Docker containers (with `--rm`) that are automatically removed when you exit. However, important data persists between sessions:

```
Single Dockerfile → Build once → agentbox:latest image
                                         ↓
                    ┌────────────────────┼────────────────────┐
                    ↓                    ↓                    ↓
          Container: project1    Container: project2    Container: project3
          (ephemeral, --rm)      (ephemeral, --rm)      (ephemeral, --rm)
          Mounts: ~/code/api    Mounts: ~/code/web     Mounts: ~/code/cli

Persistent data (survives container removal):
  Cache: ~/.cache/agentbox/agentbox-<hash>/
  History: ~/.agentbox/projects/agentbox-<hash>/history/
  Claude: Docker volume agentbox-claude-<hash>
```

## Languages and Tools

The unified Docker image includes:

- **Python**: Latest version with `uv` for fast package management
- **Node.js**: Latest LTS via NVM with npm, yarn, and pnpm
- **Java**: Latest LTS via SDKMAN with Gradle
- **Shell**: Zsh (default) and Bash with common utilities
- **Claude CLI**: Pre-installed with per-project authentication

## Authenticating to Git or other SCC Providers

### GitHub
The `gh` tool is included in the image and can be used for all GitHub operations. My recommendation:
- Visit this link to configure a [fine-grained access-token](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new?name=MyRepo-AI&description=For%20AI%20Agent%20Usage&contents=write&pull_requests=write&issues=write) with a sensible set of permissions predefined.
- On that page, restrict the token to the project repository.
- Create a .env file at the root of your project repository with entry `GH_TOKEN=<token>`
- Add some instructions to the CLAUDE.md file, telling it to use the `gh` tool for Git operations. You can see a slightly more complicated example in this repo, there is a sub-agent for git operations in .claude/agents and instructions in CLAUDE.md to remember to use agents.

Note that Claude will convert your git remotes to https, ssh remotes don't work with tokens.

### GitLab
 The `glab` tool is included in the image. You can use it with a GitLab token for API operations, but not for git operations as far as I know. So for GitLab I recommend the SSH configuration detailed below.

## Git Configuration

AgentBox copies your host `~/.gitconfig` into the container on each startup. If you don't have a host gitconfig, it uses `claude@agentbox` as the default identity.

## SSH Configuration

AgentBox uses a dedicated SSH directory (`~/.agentbox/ssh/`) isolated from your main SSH keys:

```bash
# Initialize SSH for AgentBox
agentbox ssh-init
```

This will:
1. Create ~/.agentbox/ssh/ directory
2. Copy your known_hosts for host verification
3. Generate a new Ed25519 key pair (if preferred, delete them and manually place your desired SSH keys in `~/.agentbox/ssh/`).

### Environment Variables
If a `.env` file exists in your project directory, the environment variables defined there will automatically be loaded into the container.

AgentBox also includes `direnv` support - if you have a `.envrc` file in your project directory, it will be automatically evaluated inside the container if you have `direnv allow`ed it on your host machine.

## MCP Server Configuration

Due to [Claude Code bug #6130](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code/issues/6130), by default you won't be prompted to enable MCP servers when running `agentbox` directly.

**Workaround options:**

1. **Enable individual MCP servers interactively:**
   ```bash
   agentbox shell
   claude
   ```

2. **Enable all MCP servers by default** by adding `"enableAllProjectMcpServers": true` to your Claude project or user settings.

## Data Persistence

### Package Caches
Package manager caches are stored in `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/`:
- npm packages: `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/npm`
- pip packages: `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/pip`
- Maven artifacts: `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/maven`
- Gradle cache: `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/gradle`

### Shell History
Zsh history is preserved in `~/.agentbox/projects/<container-name>/history`

### Claude CLI Authentication
Authentication data is stored in Docker named volumes (`agentbox-claude-<hash>`), providing:
- Per-project Claude CLI configuration
- Persistent authentication across container restarts
- Isolation between different projects

## Volume Management

### Listing Volumes
```bash
# List all AgentBox volumes
docker volume ls | grep agentbox-claude
```

### Cleanup
```bash
# Remove specific project's authentication
docker volume rm agentbox-claude-<hash>

# Remove all AgentBox volumes (clears all authentication)
docker volume ls -q | grep agentbox-claude | xargs docker volume rm

# Full cleanup (removes image and optionally cached data)
agentbox --cleanup
```

**Note**: Removing volumes only affects authentication - your project files remain untouched.

## Advanced Usage

### Running One-Off Commands
If you need to run a single command in the containerized environment without starting Claude CLI or an interactive shell:

```bash
# Run any command
agentbox npm test
```

### Rebuild Control
```bash
# Force rebuild the Docker image
agentbox --rebuild
```

The image automatically rebuilds when the Dockerfile or entrypoint.sh changes

## Tool / Dependency Versions
The Dockerfile is configured to pull the latest stable version of each tool (NVM, GitLab CLI, etc.) during the build process. This makes maintenance easy and ensures that we always use current software. It also means that rebuilding the Docker image may automatically result in newer versions of tools being installed, which could introduce unexpected behavior or breaking changes. If you require specific tool versions, consider pinning them in the Dockerfile.

## Alternatives
### Anthropic DevContainer
Anthropic offers a [devcontainer](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code/tree/main/.devcontainer) which achieves a similar goal. If you like devcontainers, that's a good option. Unfortunately, I find that devcontainers sometimes have weird bugs, problematic support in IntelliJ/Mac, or they are just more cumbersome to use (try switching to a recent project with a shortcut, for example). I don't want to force people to use a devcontainer if what they really want is safe YOLO-mode isolation - the simpler solution to the problem is just Docker, hence, this project.

### Comparison with ClaudeBox
AgentBox began as a simplified replacement for [ClaudeBox](https://github.com/RchGrav/claudebox). I liked the ClaudeBox project, but its complexity caused a lot of bugs and I found myself maintaning my own fork with my not-yet-merged PRs. It became easier for me to build something leaner for my own needs. Comparison:

| Feature | AgentBox | ClaudeBox |
|---------|----------|-----------|
| Files | 3 core files | 20+ files |
| Profiles | Single unified image | 20+ language profiles |
| Container Management | Simple per-project | Advanced slot system |
| Setup | Automatic | Manual configuration |

## Support and Contributing
I make no guarantee to support this project in the long term. Feel free to create issues and submit PRs. I like to think that I will attend to them. The project is designed to be understandable enough that if you need specific custom changes, which you may well do, you can fork or just make them locally for yourself. Theoretically you could easily this project to other AI Agents, for example.

If you do contribute, consider that AgentBox is designed to be simple and maintainable. The value of new features will always be weighed against the added complexity.

Commit message:

feat: add global .env file support and documentation improvements (#43)
* fix: restrict GitHub Actions wildcard permissions to current PR (#4)

Scope gh pr comment permissions to only the PR being reviewed
by using PR number variable instead of wildcard. Prevents
compromised workflow token from commenting on arbitrary PRs.

Co-authored-by: GLM <zai-org@users.noreply.github.com>

* feat: add global .env file support (#8)

Add support for ~/.agentbox/.env that loads before project-specific
.env files. This enables centralized configuration for API keys and
custom inference endpoints across all projects.

Changes:
- Load ~/.agentbox/.env first, then PROJECT_DIR/.env
- Project env vars override global vars (Docker's last-wins behavior)
- Add log message for discoverability when global .env is loaded
- Document global .env usage in README with examples

Co-authored-by: GLM <zai-org@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

![AgentBox Logo](media/logo-image-only-150.png)

# AgentBox

A Docker-based development environment for running Claude CLI in a more safe, isolated fashion. This makes it less dangerous to use YOLO mode (`--dangerously-skip-permissions`), which is, in my opinion, the only way to use AI agents.

## Features

- **Shares project directory with host**: Maps a volume with the source code so that you can see and modify the agent's changes on the host machine - just like if you were running Claude without a container.
- **Multi-Directory Support**: Mount additional project directories for cross-project development
- **Unified Development Environment**: Single Docker image with Python, Node.js, Java, and Shell support
- **Automatic Rebuilds**: Detects changes to Dockerfile/entrypoint and rebuilds automatically
- **Per-Project Isolation**: Each project directory gets its own isolated container environment
- **Persistent Data**: Package caches and shell history persist between sessions
- **Claude CLI Integration**: Built-in support for Claude CLI with per-project authentication
- **SSH Support**: Dedicated SSH directory for secure Git operations

## Requirements

- **Docker**: Must be installed and running
- **Bash 4.0+**: macOS ships with Bash 3.2, I recommend upgrading via Homebrew (`brew install bash`).

## Multi-Directory Support

AgentBox supports mounting additional directories for scenarios where your agent needs access to multiple projects:

```bash
# Mount a single additional directory
agentbox --add-dir ~/other-project

# Mount multiple directories (repeatable flag)
agentbox --add-dir ~/proj1 --add-dir ~/proj2 --add-dir ~/proj3

# Works with shell mode too
agentbox --add-dir ~/library-code shell
```

**How it works:**
- Your current directory is always mounted as `/workspace`
- Additional directories are mounted using their folder names (e.g., `/foo`, `/bar`)
- All directories are writable - changes sync back to the host
- The mounting order follows the order you specify in the flag

## Installation

1. Clone AgentBox to your preferred location
2. Ensure Docker is installed and running
3. Make the script executable: `chmod +x agentbox`
4. Optionally add to your PATH for global access

## Quick Start

```bash
# Show available commands
agentbox --help

# Start Claude CLI in container (--dangerously-skip-permissions is automatically included)
agentbox


# Non-agentbox CLI flags are passed through to claude.
# For example, to continue the most recent session
agentbox -c

# Mount additional directories for multi-project access
agentbox --add-dir ~/proj1 --add-dir ~/proj2  # Multiple directories

# Start shell with sudo privileges
agentbox shell --admin

# Set up SSH keys for AgentBox
agentbox ssh-init
```

## How It Works

AgentBox creates ephemeral Docker containers (with `--rm`) that are automatically removed when you exit. However, important data persists between sessions:

```
Single Dockerfile → Build once → agentbox:latest image
                                         ↓
                    ┌────────────────────┼────────────────────┐
                    ↓                    ↓                    ↓
          Container: project1    Container: project2    Container: project3
          (ephemeral, --rm)      (ephemeral, --rm)      (ephemeral, --rm)
          Mounts: ~/code/api    Mounts: ~/code/web     Mounts: ~/code/cli

Persistent data (survives container removal):
  Cache: ~/.cache/agentbox/agentbox-<hash>/
  History: ~/.agentbox/projects/agentbox-<hash>/history/
  Claude: Docker volume agentbox-claude-<hash>
```

## Languages and Tools

The unified Docker image includes:

- **Python**: Latest version with `uv` for fast package management
- **Node.js**: Latest LTS via NVM with npm, yarn, and pnpm
- **Java**: Latest LTS via SDKMAN with Gradle
- **Shell**: Zsh (default) and Bash with common utilities
- **Claude CLI**: Pre-installed with per-project authentication

## Authenticating to Git or other SCC Providers

### GitHub
The `gh` tool is included in the image and can be used for all GitHub operations. My recommendation:
- Visit this link to configure a [fine-grained access-token](https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new?name=MyRepo-AI&description=For%20AI%20Agent%20Usage&contents=write&pull_requests=write&issues=write) with a sensible set of permissions predefined.
- On that page, restrict the token to the project repository.
- Create a .env file at the root of your project repository with entry `GH_TOKEN=<token>`
- Add some instructions to the CLAUDE.md file, telling it to use the `gh` tool for Git operations. You can see a slightly more complicated example in this repo, there is a sub-agent for git operations in .claude/agents and instructions in CLAUDE.md to remember to use agents.

Note that Claude will convert your git remotes to https, ssh remotes don't work with tokens.

### GitLab
 The `glab` tool is included in the image. You can use it with a GitLab token for API operations, but not for git operations as far as I know. So for GitLab I recommend the SSH configuration detailed below.

## Git Configuration

AgentBox copies your host `~/.gitconfig` into the container on each startup. If you don't have a host gitconfig, it uses `claude@agentbox` as the default identity.

## SSH Configuration

AgentBox uses a dedicated SSH directory (`~/.agentbox/ssh/`) isolated from your main SSH keys:

```bash
# Initialize SSH for AgentBox
agentbox ssh-init
```

This will:
1. Create ~/.agentbox/ssh/ directory
2. Copy your known_hosts for host verification
3. Generate a new Ed25519 key pair (if preferred, delete them and manually place your desired SSH keys in `~/.agentbox/ssh/`).

### Environment Variables
Environment variables are loaded from `.env` files in this order (later overrides earlier):
1. `~/.agentbox/.env` (global)
2. `<project-dir>/.env` (project-specific)

AgentBox includes `direnv` support - `.envrc` files are evaluated if `direnv allow`ed on the host.

## MCP Server Configuration

Due to [Claude Code bug #6130](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code/issues/6130), by default you won't be prompted to enable MCP servers when running `agentbox` directly.

**Workaround options:**

1. **Enable individual MCP servers interactively:**
   ```bash
   agentbox shell
   claude
   ```

2. **Enable all MCP servers by default** by adding `"enableAllProjectMcpServers": true` to your Claude project or user settings.

## Data Persistence

### Package Caches
Package manager caches are stored in `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/`:
- npm packages: `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/npm`
- pip packages: `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/pip`
- Maven artifacts: `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/maven`
- Gradle cache: `~/.cache/agentbox/<container-name>/gradle`

### Shell History
Zsh history is preserved in `~/.agentbox/projects/<container-name>/history`

### Claude CLI Authentication
Authentication data is stored in Docker named volumes (`agentbox-claude-<hash>`), providing:
- Per-project Claude CLI configuration
- Persistent authentication across container restarts
- Isolation between different projects

## Volume Management

### Listing Volumes
```bash
# List all AgentBox volumes
docker volume ls | grep agentbox-claude
```

### Cleanup
```bash
# Remove specific project's authentication
docker volume rm agentbox-claude-<hash>

# Remove all AgentBox volumes (clears all authentication)
docker volume ls -q | grep agentbox-claude | xargs docker volume rm

# Full cleanup (removes image and optionally cached data)
agentbox --cleanup
```

**Note**: Removing volumes only affects authentication - your project files remain untouched.

## Advanced Usage

### Running One-Off Commands
If you need to run a single command in the containerized environment without starting Claude CLI or an interactive shell:

```bash
# Run any command
agentbox npm test
```

### Rebuild Control
```bash
# Force rebuild the Docker image
agentbox --rebuild
```

The image automatically rebuilds when the Dockerfile or entrypoint.sh changes

## Tool / Dependency Versions
The Dockerfile is configured to pull the latest stable version of each tool (NVM, GitLab CLI, etc.) during the build process. This makes maintenance easy and ensures that we always use current software. It also means that rebuilding the Docker image may automatically result in newer versions of tools being installed, which could introduce unexpected behavior or breaking changes. If you require specific tool versions, consider pinning them in the Dockerfile.

## Alternatives
### Anthropic DevContainer
Anthropic offers a [devcontainer](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code/tree/main/.devcontainer) which achieves a similar goal. If you like devcontainers, that's a good option. Unfortunately, I find that devcontainers sometimes have weird bugs, problematic support in IntelliJ/Mac, or they are just more cumbersome to use (try switching to a recent project with a shortcut, for example). I don't want to force people to use a devcontainer if what they really want is safe YOLO-mode isolation - the simpler solution to the problem is just Docker, hence, this project.

### Comparison with ClaudeBox
AgentBox began as a simplified replacement for [ClaudeBox](https://github.com/RchGrav/claudebox). I liked the ClaudeBox project, but its complexity caused a lot of bugs and I found myself maintaning my own fork with my not-yet-merged PRs. It became easier for me to build something leaner for my own needs. Comparison:

| Feature | AgentBox | ClaudeBox |
|---------|----------|-----------|
| Files | 3 core files | 20+ files |
| Profiles | Single unified image | 20+ language profiles |
| Container Management | Simple per-project | Advanced slot system |
| Setup | Automatic | Manual configuration |

## Support and Contributing
I make no guarantee to support this project in the long term. Feel free to create issues and submit PRs. I like to think that I will attend to them. The project is designed to be understandable enough that if you need specific custom changes, which you may well do, you can fork or just make them locally for yourself. Theoretically you could easily this project to other AI Agents, for example.

If you do contribute, consider that AgentBox is designed to be simple and maintainable. The value of new features will always be weighed against the added complexity.
